---
title: 8.2 - Configure the Forwarder to Send Data
date: 2025-03-26 00:00:00 +/-TTTT
categories:
  - Splunk SIEM Implementation
tags:
  - splunk-siem-implementation
image: ../preview-image.png
media_subpath: /assets/img/Splunk-SIEM-Implementation/2025-03-26-8.2---Configure-the-Forwarder-to-Send-Data/
---
   
Once we are done with Identify critical data sources and critical data logs, Next we need to configure the forwarder to send data to the Splunk Enterprise to ensure proper data transmission. These Splunk Enterprise instance is sometimes also referred to as the Splunk Indexer or Splunk Server.

## Windows

**Note:** This step is optional in windows for standalone deployments as forwarder is already configured with receiver address at the time of installation.

- But if you still intend to manually configure the forward to send data. you can use the following command. This will address the Splunk forwarder to Splunk Receiver (Splunk Enterprise Instance) using its IP Address and Port making it aware of where to send this log files to.

```
.\splunk add forward-server X.X.X.X:9997
```

## Linux

- Address the Splunk forwarder for linux with our Splunk Receiver (Splunk Enterprise Instance) IP Address and Port making it aware of where to send this log files to.

```
/opt/splunkforwarder/bin/splunk add forward-server X.X.X.X:9997
```
  
## Outputs file

- we can Also do this by editing the `outputs.conf` file in both windows and linux to define the Splunk indexer or heavy forwarder details (IP address and port) for data forwarding. 
- This is applicable to both Windows and Linux.
	- Default Location: `$SPLUNK_HOME/etc/system/local/outputs.conf`    
	- Custom/Apps Location: `$SPLUNK_HOME/etc/apps/search/local/outputs.conf` (Recommended)

- Sample `outputs.conf` file:

```
[tcpout]
defaultGroup = default-autolb-group
[tcpout:default-autolb-group]
server = x.x.x.x:9997, indexer2:9997

# Optional: Load balancing
[tcpout-server://x.x.x.x:9997]
[tcpout-server://indexer2:9997]

# Optional: For SSL (if required)
[tcpout:ssl]
sslVerifyServerCert = true
sslCertPath = /path/to/certificate.pem
sslKeyPath = /path/to/privatekey.pem
```

- Explanation:
	- `[tcpout]`: The main stanza for configuring TCP output.
	- defaultGroup: The default group of indexers to send data.
	- `[tcpout:default-autolb-group]`: Defines a group of indexers with their addresses.
	- server: Specifies the target indexers (hostname:port) to which the data will be sent.
	- sslVerifyServerCert: Whether to verify the SSL certificate of the server (if using SSL).
	- sslCertPath and sslKeyPath: Paths to the SSL certificate and private key, respectively.
