---
title: 9.2 - C2 Simulation
date: 2025-03-26 00:00:00 +/-TTTT
categories:
  - Splunk SIEM Implementation
tags:
  - splunk-siem-implementation
image: ../preview-image.png
media_subpath: /assets/img/Splunk-SIEM-Implementation/2025-03-26-9.2---C2-Simulation/
---

## Introduction
  
Command and Control (C2) activity refers to the communication between a malicious actor and a compromised system, where the actor sends commands to the system and receives data in return. From here we will walk through the process of installing a C2 framework, simulating a C2 attack, analyzing logs, creating alerts, building a dashboard, and generating a report.  
  
## Step 1: Installation
  
We will begin by installing Mythic C2, a popular open-source C2 framework, along with its associated components, including the Agent, Profile, and payload generation tools. This step will provide us with a functional C2 framework that can be used to simulate a C2 attack. The installation process will involve setting up the Mythic C2 server, configuring the Agent, and generating a payload that can be used to infect a target system.  
  
## Step 2: Attack
  
Next, we will simulate a C2 attack by using the installed C2 framework to exfiltrate a file from a target system. This step will help us understand the tactics and techniques used by malicious actors to establish a C2 channel and communicate with a compromised system. By simulating the attack, we can gain a better understanding of the potential risks and threats associated with C2 activity, such as the ability of an attacker to remotely control a system, steal sensitive data, or install additional malware.  
  
## Step 3: Analysis
  
After simulating the attack, we will analyze logs to identify patterns and anomalies that can help us detect C2 activity. This step is critical in understanding the nature of the attack and identifying potential vulnerabilities in the system. By analyzing the logs, we can gain insights into the attack methodology, including the commands sent to the compromised system, the data exfiltrated, and the communication protocols used. This information will help us to better understand the attack landscape and identify areas for improvement, such as implementing additional security controls or modifying system configurations to prevent C2 activity.  
  
## Step 4: Alert
  
We will then create alerts for C2 Agent detection, which will ensure that security teams are notified of potential C2 activity in real-time. This step is essential in detecting and responding to C2 attacks, as it enables swift action to be taken to prevent or mitigate the attack. By creating alerts, we can ensure that security teams are proactive in their response to potential threats, rather than reactive. Alerts can be configured to trigger on a variety of conditions one of which is finding any activity related to known C2 agents.
  
## Step 5: Dashboard
  
Next, we will build a dashboard to visualize C2 activity, connections, and attack patterns. This step will provide a clear and concise overview of the attack landscape, allowing us to quickly identify trends and patterns in C2 activity. The dashboard will provide a centralized location for monitoring and analyzing C2 activity, enabling security teams to make informed decisions about the security of the system. The dashboard can be configured to display a variety of metrics, such as the number of C2 connections, which user was used to infected the system, etc.

## Step 6: Report
  
Finally, we will generate a report detailing C2 attack activity and impact. This step will provide a comprehensive overview of the attack landscape, including the number of compromised systems, the data exfiltrated, and the potential risks and threats associated with the attack. The report will help us to understand the overall impact of the attack and identify areas for improvement, enabling us to refine our security controls and prevent future attacks. By generating a report, we can gain a deeper understanding of the attack landscape and make informed decisions about the security of the system, such as implementing additional security measures or modifying system configurations to prevent C2 activity.
